---
layout: default
name: conference_themes
title: Conference Theme - Disrupting Society
one_column: true
description: |
---

“_Geography students hold the key to the world's problems_” (Michael Palin)

COP26 in Glasgow, UK, highlighted the urgent need for a research and policy agenda that promotes sustainability in an era of potentially catastrophic climate change. We, as a community, have the skills and knowledge to use the latest theory, models and evidence to make a positive and disruptive impact. However, there are several key questions that we need to address. What do we need to be able to contribute to policy in a more direct and timely manner?  What new or existing research approaches are needed? How can we make sure they are robust enough to be used in decision making? How can GIScience be used to link across citizens, policy and practice and respond to these societal challenges? What are the cross-scale local trade-offs that will have to be negotiated as we re-configure and transform our urban and rural environments? How can spatial data (and analysis) be used to support the co-production of truly sustainable solutions, achieve social buy-in and social acceptance? And thereby co-produce solutions with citizens and policy makers.

The GIScience conference series has always had a focus on fundamental research themes and questions. Papers advancing the field methodologically or theoretically are encouraged; those strictly dealing with applications are discouraged. This year we are also particularly interested in efforts that are directly engaging with stakeholders and citizens to inform better policy formation and intervention, especially at different scales of decision making.  We are also interested in advances in work that is focused on developing new methodologies for improving the toolset that computational modellers and analysts have at their disposal.

In addition to the above, themes include:

 - GIScience for managing and responding to crises
 - Visualisation of complex spatio-temporal data 
 - Model validation and assessment
 - Uncertainty quantification in GIScience
 - Urban analytics
 - Landscape decisions: from the ground up
 - Reproducibility, transparency and openness in spatial analysis and spatial evidence creation
 - Approaches to connect and share (open source) data and models
 - Movement analysis
 - Agent-based modelling of spatial phenomena
 - Revealing, quantifying, and reducing socio-economic inequalities with GIScience
 - Using new forms of data in GIScience
 - Spatial optimization and location modelling.

