---
layout: default
name: welcome
title: GIScience 2023
one_column: true
description: |
---

The **Twelth International Conference on Geographic Information Science** will be held in **Leeds, United Kingdom**, on **13-15 September 2023** (with workshops and welcome reception on 12 September). It is being hosted by the University of Leeds in collaboration with the University of Glasgow. 
[GIScience](http://giscience.org/) is the flagship conference in the field of Geographic Information Science and the UK conference will continue the highly successful series that started in 2000.

The [GIScience conference series](http://giscience.org/) regularly brings together more than 300 international participants from academia, industry, and government to discuss and advance the state-of-the-art in geographic information science. 12 September 2023 is dedicated to Workshops and Tutorials (the call for participation will be announced in December 2022). 
The main conference (13-15 September) consists of two refereed paper tracks: full papers and short papers (for full details see the <a href="#cfp">call for papers</a>). Further information about the conference series can be found at [giscience.org](http://giscience.org/).

<!--The GIScience conference series has always had a focus on fundamental research themes and questions. Papers advancing the field methodologically or theoretically are encouraged; papers strictly dealing with applications are discouraged. GIScience 2018 welcomes papers and proposals covering emerging topics and fundamental research findings across all sectors of geographic information science, including (but not limited to) the role of geographic information in geography, computer science, engineering, information science, linguistics, mathematics, cognitive science, philosophy, psychology, social science, and geostatistics.-->

GIScience proceedings are planned to be published in LIPIcs, the [Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics series](https://www.dagstuhl.de/en/publications/lipics). LIPIcs volumes are peer-reviewed and published according to the principle of open access, i.e., they are available online and free of charge. Each article is published under a Creative Commons [CC BY](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) license, where the authors retain their copyright. Also, each article is assigned a DOI and a URN. The digital archiving of each volume is done in cooperation with the Deutsche Nationalbibliothek/German National Library. A number of high-standing international conferences have already made the move to LIPIcs.
